# DS-395-Statistics-and-Medicine
Prior to my junior year winter, I knew I had to take data science credits for the major. One of the classes offered was DS-395: Statistics and Medicine. My mom worked for Pfizer for two decades, and I took the class to get closer to her. Also, Professor Sybil Prince-Nelson was teaching it, and I had taken Calculus with her freshman year and enjoyed the course. 

In Statistics and Medicine, I explored the current state of the pandemic. This included four main topics. First, I researched why COVID-19 continues to claim lives. Secondly, we learned how data science helps in tracking and mitigating its impact. Thirdly, I discovered what the enduring effects of the disease are, and the vaccines developed to fight it. Lastly, we questioned what the pandemic's trajectory over the past four years was and what the implications are for the future. 

This course featured four goals. First, we aimed to build a strong foundation in R programming. Secondly, we wanted to master data analysis techniques for real-world applications. Thirdly, we were aware of ethical standards in data handling and analysis. Lastly, we wanted to develop effective data communication skills. 

Project One was titled “Data Analysis of COVID-19 Vaccine Efficacy.” The objective was to analyze real-world data to assess the dynamic among different age groups being vaccinated. Our data analysis was consistent with prior research showing that the percentage of those who are fully vaccinated between the ages of 18–24 and 25–49 is significantly lower than those who are 65+. While we may not know the full reasoning behind this, it is an important observation when encouraging people to get vaccinated in the future for COVID-19 or other diseases. 

Project Two was titled “Long-term Side Effects.” The goal was to investigate and report on the long-term side effects of COVID-19 vaccines using data science techniques. In a literature review titled “Analyzing Trends: The Impact of Long COVID on Various Bodily Systems,” we found that Long COVID drastically impacts many parts of the body over time. This includes thrombotic and cardiovascular systems, respiratory systems, neurological and olfactory functions, orthostatic challenges, and psychiatric symptomatology. 

The final project was titled “Analyzing Global COVID-19 Vaccination Rates Using Chi Square Tests.” We asked three questions. First, is there a significant difference in life expectancy before and after the pandemic? Second, how did the impact of the pandemic on life expectancy vary by group? Thirdly, are vaccination coverage and GDP good predictors of life expectancy post-pandemic? We used Levene’s test, a two-way ANOVA run in R, and linear regression to analyze GDP and life expectancy data from the World Bank. Ultimately, our model suggests that vaccination rates, economic standing (GDP percentile), and regional location all significantly impact post-pandemic life expectancy. Specifically, Europe has the highest expected life expectancy post-pandemic, followed by Asia and North America. Additionally, higher GDP and vaccination rates lead to higher life expectancy.
